---
layout: post
title:  "Entry #3"
date:   2018-09-19 13:58:01 -0500
categories:

---

In my 2003 cool heyday as a mega Lord of the Rings fan, I often used Livejournal to communicate with others within the fandom. Having a well designed Livejournal was essential to in the community. There were numerous tutorials out there that posted the code to improve journal aesthetics- from how to bold your header, embed images, to editing your whole theme. And by “editing your theme” I mean that you just copy and pasted the theme’s creator’s html code and adjusted the relevant fields.

How naive of me to think that it would be the same type of theme editing for my Jekyll generated site. My head has been in my hands all class and my resting bitch face is at defcon 1 (severe and clearly irritable). This is quite the stumbling block for me since it had been so easy to personalize code in my past. The difficulty here seems to mirror the discussion we had today about performing well in undergraduate studies and then really feeling the insecurity and frustration of new challenges that graduate school brings.  

After many unsuccessful attempts to install the themes via the installation instructions of the theme creator, I am now resorting to general theme installation guides I found through Google. Let’s hope that these are more helpful and relevant to my level of understanding of using GitHub, i.e. please, please work or I am going to have to begrudgingly ask my software developer boyfriend for help. Not that he is unwilling to help, I am just bitter that his knowledge is more practical while he will likely never ask me how to find scholarly articles in library databases or the different applications of the ablative case in Latin.

After a good hour or so of troubleshooting, I am throwing in the towel. Unfortunately, those tutorials did not help. I was able to have the theme show up but my posts weren’t up-just the generic theme fake posts. Now, I cannot push any files up to GitHub, so I’m definitely stuck. It is very likely that the tutorials are in fact helpful but I am misunderstanding an important concept. I’ve hit a wall and for the time being, I do not feel like I can continue without more guidance. 