---
layout: post
title:  "Entry #4"
date:   2018-09-26 16:28:01 -0500
categories:

---

Following up on last week’s unfortunate theme road block, I did end up consulting my software developer boyfriend, Bill. Watching him jump around the command line, explain and fix the problem (my github hosted site disappearing locally and ‘online’, amongst other issues) was begrudgingly amazing.

He is clearly comfortable with the command line. Me on the other hand, only use it if there is no UI available.  When Bill asked how I was pushing my files to my GitHub repository I said, “Oh, yeah, I’ve been using the GitHub Desktop UI”. To which he replied, “Oh no..." and promptly opened the command line and asked me when things were working.

He showed me how to access my local and committed history, how to read it and how to revert the site to a stage when things were working smoothly for me. While I cannot say that I will continue to use the command line to work with GitHub rather than the desktop UI, the commands he showed me of were useful and I actually began to remember when I learned them only a year or so ago.

Two summers ago, as apart of the Humanities Intensive Learning and Teaching (HILT) institute, I took part in a two week course entitled, “Help! I’m a Humanist! - Humanities Programming with Python” :

<http://dhtraining.org/hilt/course/help-im-a-humanist-humanities-programming-with-python-2017/>

Before we started Python, we learned some basic command line commands especially in relation to GitHub. When Bill and I were going over the basic git commands, I was remembering ‘git status’ ‘git push’ and ‘git log’ . It was like remembering a time that I had blocked out of my memory! This was not necessarily because it was a terrible learning experience, but because I had NEVER PRACTICED IT AGAIN. 

I suppose that is both my main concern and main experience from trying to round out my tech skills here at the iSchool- if you don’t keep practicing, you tend to lose it. Perhaps that is just how my brain works…

Anyway, here are other things I learned from Bill’s Github/Jekyll/Command Line consultation:

1. Capitalization in file names: NO.

2. 1. <b>Him:</b> What is the title of your folder?

   2. **Me**: Github

   3. **Him:** <i>searches directory via command line with no results</i> 

   4. **Me:** Oh, it’s GitHub with a capital G and H

   5. **Him:** Oh, fuck no. 

      …….Apparently, capitalization is a thing.

2. You can revert back to your last commit/push both locally and online if you mess up.

We figured out my mistake: In the process of my attempt to integrate a theme into my blog, I had tried to fork the theme creator’s repository into my TechLearnStudio repository with my current posts and expected them to merge automatically. ‘Computers are not magic’ is a concept that never seems to truly stick with me permanently.  

Anyway, as much as a dragged my feet about asking my boyfriend how to do something related to coding, it was worth it. He was not condescending (we laughed and he apologized after his knee jerk response to my naming conventions), he spoke quickly but I was also quick to ask him to slow down or repeat something if I didn’t actually understand it. In fact, I would call it a very rewarding experience.  Wow, thanks for bringing my relationship closer, GitHub, Jekyll, my Capstone project, Tech Learning Studio and James Howlison. 