---
layout: post
title:  "Reflecting on my Communities of Practice: Director's Cut"
date:   2018-10-24 16:28:01 -0500
categories:


---

I thought it would be an interesting exercise to evaluate the DH coworking community of practice using some of the the evaluation guidelines provided by the [Community of practice wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Community_of_practice#Cultivating_successful_CoPs). The first objective listed is to “design the community to evolve naturally” (“Community of practice,” 2018). When Allyssa and I discussed creating a private co-working community, we had members in mind to invite, but wanted to be facilitators rather than instructors. We proposed guidelines for the co-working operation but asked for input from members before any format was finalized. In this regard, I believe that we have designed a community that can evolve naturally or at least a community that is open to change and suggestions from its members.

“Welcome and allow different levels of participation” 

We do have a core group who seem to always be involved in presentations or event organization. For the past year, I would identify those to be Allyssa and myself. Alyssa and I primarily are the ones who co-organize meetings and events where we decide the direction of the community we are trying to establish and facilitate. We also do have “the active group who attend and participate regularly, but not to the level of the leaders” (“Community of practice,” 2018). These would include the four other graduate students in our co-working group. Each of these members in some combination normally attend DH workshops on campus, present at workshops, attend co-working sessions or meetups. The “peripheral group” I would identify as workshop attendees or those who attend the informal DH meet-ups. While the peripheral group might make up more of the group in terms of numbers, the co-working group represents those who have a more active role in the way the community is run. The workshops and meetups make up the more public spaces of learning engagement equally as important. 

Do we focus on the value of the community? This is where I think we do not fulfill this guidelines for communities of practice. Wenger recommended that there is a “degree of self-awareness” in a community of practice. We should reflect more on our progress and current state as a community of practice. During co-working time, it would be beneficial to see what we are and are not addressing. How does each member feel while participating in this level of a community of practice? It could be a particularly interesting conversation on our fixed and growth mindsets when it comes to learning digital humanities techniques. Do we consider ourselves to be self taught? What are our anxieties and apprehensions about learning and contributing to the field of digital humanities? Are we in a state of fixed or growth mindsets? (Wenger, 2000).

Find and nurture a regular rhythm for the community? This aspect is one of the best facets of our community. We offer a variety of ways to engage in digital humanities events, through workshops, meet ups and co-working, there are several options for those in the community to engage with each other without the environment being too demanding or too stagnant to keep interest. 