---
layout: post
title:  "Entry #2: Starting Tutorials, eek!"
date:   2018-09-05 14:47:01 -0500
categories:
---
Post 2:  Starting Tutorials, eek!

So, now that I’ve done some background reading, the next thing to do is jump in. Which is terrifying, to be honest. I am afraid that I am tearing off more than I can chew, that maybe I should just learn to use Omeka and enjoy the safe embrace of its UI. But I suppose I have to try...or something? Hopefully, there will be no table flips or expletive laden screams in the studio space. I give that an 80% chance of occuring. Let’s see.

I’ve just spent 10 minutes installing package managers and packages. I am very good at this part. 

While I am waiting for all of these things to install and update, I just want to give a quick shout out to the Programming Historian. I have used this site before in digital humanities work and courses and there are so many rich tutorials out there. One reason why I am so particularly impressed with it is that it compared to other tutorials out there is that it holds your hand through every step BUT also explains things in layman terms for the uninitiated. It gives you some idea of why you need to do something but does not explain every single package installation with the expectation that you know what it is for. The audience for these postings are largely those with a traditional humanities background and are interested in learning more about digital tools to enhance their research. 

Okay, so back to actual learning. After installing HomeBrew, RubyGems and initiating Jekyll, I am now looking at the _config.yml file. According to the Programming Historian, a yml file is written using for YAML, which stands for “YML Ain’t Markup Language”. I definitely chuckled and I appreciate the casual nature of the title. In the same way as HomeBrew, the coding culture seems much more relaxed than when I took Java in high school in 2006.

So, everything is up and running which is nice. I have downloaded a markdown editor, Typora, to edit points which seems to really easy to use. I have been able to edit the sample Jekyll post file and uploaded three entries! Hurrah! I survived and no one was maimed or yelled at in the process. 