---
layout: post
title:  "Zine Making Pre-Reflections"
date:   2018-11-06 16:28:01 -0500
categories:
---



The Wikipedia page for [zines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zine) does a better job describing zines than I ever could: 

​	“A zine (/ziːn/ ***ZEEN***; short for *magazine* or *fanzine*) is a small-circulation self-published work of original or appropriated texts and images, usually reproduced via photocopier…

...written in a variety of formats from desktop-published text to comics, collages and stories, zines cover broad topics including fanfiction, politics, poetry, art & design, ephemera, personal journals, social theory, intersectional feminism, single-topic obsession, or sexual content far outside the mainstream enough to be prohibitive of inclusion in more traditional media.”

I’ve been collecting zines for a while now through art fests, shows, local shops and online vendors. Usually, profit is not in mind and that to me makes it one of the last true art forms. Sappy and pretentious, I know but there are even more fascinating because of it.

As a 14 year old angsty teen, the Riot Grrl movement spoke to me and I desparately wanted to be the Rebel Girl queen, Kathleen Hanna, a feminist punk political activist. I always imagiend the women who created zines in a bad ass diy space, writing and collaging feverishly- not giving a flying f*** about what other people would think.

Somehow the image I have idealized for so long was the part part of the zine process I have not felt able to do:

Just get started.

I consider myself to be a mostly pleasant person- manners and civility were heavily goaded qualities by my parents. However, I also have a lot of strong opinions. I usually stuff those down in my usual environments (work, school, family gatherings) and just express them around people I trust. Which reminds me, since this is a project for school, I may not be as honest or opinionated but I just want to learn how to get started. 

I enjoy making birthday cards, or doodling in my notebook alone in my room, copying patterns and floral designs. However, it never seemed worth it to create something as a whole. Who would it be for? Who would even want to see it?

To get over that getting started hump, I think I need to realize that when it comes to creating zines, it doesn't f***ing matter. To be one of those badass women expressing themselves, I need to get over what other people think (except for *maybe* Professor James Howison!). 

So here are the modules I am looking into today to figure out what the entire creation process looks like. To be honest, even as a former teacher/experienced copy jockey, I am still intimidated by the zine copying process, especially with collating pages and working the image settings and features. I have wasted so much paper and money making incorrect copies but I also think this might be a "oh no! too many mistakes perfectionist anxiety". This particular anxiety seems to be very counterproductive given the nontraditional production and expressive momentum behind the diy subculture. So teaching myself how to create a zine will definitely be a learning experience by teaching myself to feel comfortable creating and sharing something that is personally expressive and a little imperfect. 